Gleamoscope App scripts

Greeting screen 

Welcome to GLEAMoscope VR. You are standing in the Murchison Radio-Astronomy Observatory in Western Australia. Already the site of the Australian SKA Pathfinder and the Murchison Wide Field Array, two world-class radio telescopes, this outback location will soon be the home to the Square Kilometre Array, or SKA, the world’s most sensitive radio telescope. 


Antenna POI

This is an artist’s representation of what one of the SKA-low frequency antennas might look like. SKA-low will be made up of over 100,000 of these, broken up into stations of 256 antennas each. When the signal from each of these antennas is joined together using powerful supercomputers, it will allow us to search the Universe with radio-eyes at a resolution never before possible. 

You can change the wavelength your eyes can see, allowing you to see the Universe like never before. 


Radio script (info button appears when radio frequency picked)
---

Vela Nebula

11,000 thousand years ago a star exploded in a supernova leaving behind this nebula. At only 800 light-years away it is one of the closest known supernova remnants.


Vela pulsar

The Vela pulsar is a rotating neutron star at the heart of the Vela nebula.  It rotates 11 times per second and at radio frequencies, it’s the brightest pulsar visible from Earth. 



Centaurus A

Centaurus A is a galaxy more than 11 million light-years away. The two jets erupting from the supermassive black hole at the centre of the galaxy extend thousands of light-years into space. Every dot in the radio sky is a galaxy just like Centaurus A, with hundreds of thousands found in these observations.



Supernova remnant

When a large star dies it erupts as a supernova explosion. Brighter than all the other stars in its galaxy, a supernova is so powerful it can be seen across the Universe. It glows in visible light for weeks to months and continues to glow at radio wavelengths for many millennia, allowing us to study what happened in our galaxy long ago.


LMC
The Large Magellanic Cloud is a dwarf galaxy orbiting around our own Milky Way. The LMC is one of the closest galaxies to us, and contains about 10 billion stars, compared to the Milky Way’s 400 billion stars.


Radio intro script
These are the lowest frequencies astronomers can observe, covering the same band people use for FM radio. What you’re seeing is radio light produced from electrons in space moving through cosmic magnetic fields. The bright band across the sky is our own Milky Way.




